feat: adds dedicated Testing section to Tools (#629)
matter-labs/zksync-web-era-docs: docs/tools/local-testing/era-test-node.md

> # In-Memory node testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# In-memory node
```
changing text for menu

# In-memory node

This documentation provides instructions on setting up and using the In-Memory Node, `era-test-node`, for local testing. It covers installation, network forking, transaction details viewing, replaying transactions, and testing local bootloader and system contracts.

> :::warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning Tool in alpha stage
```

 Please keep in mind that `era-test-node` is still in its **alpha** stage, so some features might not be fully supported yet and may not work as fully intended. It is [open-sourced](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-test-node) and contributions are welcomed. 
:::

## Understanding the In-Memory Node 

The In-memory node uses an in-memory database for storing state information and simplified hashmaps for tracking blocks and transactions. In fork mode, it retrieves missing storage data from a remote source when not available locally. Moreover it also uses the remote server (openchain) to resolve the ABI and topics to human readable names.

You can visit the `era-test-node` repository [here](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-test-node) to learn more.

## Prerequisites 

Before you get started, there are a few prerequisites to consider. Ensure that your development environment meets the following requirements:

- **Rust:** Since `era-test-node` is written in Rust, you need to have Rust installed on your machine. You can download Rust from [here](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

> - **Other Dependencies:** This crate relies on `rocksDB` for its operation. If you encounter any compile errors due to `rocksDB`, you might also need to install `cmake`, `pkg-config`, `libssl-dev`, and `clang` using the command `apt-get install -y cmake pkg-config libssl-dev clang`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Other Dependencies:** This crate relies on `rocksDB` for its operation. If you encounter any compile errors due to `rocksDB`, you might also need to install some dependencies using the following command: `apt-get install -y cmake pkg-config libssl-dev clang`.
```

## Installing and setting up `era-test-node`

Begin by installing `era-test-node` using the command:

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/matter-labs/era-test-node.git
```

Rust should install it in the `~/.cargo/bin` directory.

To start the node, execute:

```bash
era_test_node run
```

The expected output will be as follows:

```bash
Starting network with chain id: L2ChainId(270)
Setting Rich accounts:
Address: "0x36615Cf349d7F6344891B1e7CA7C72883F5dc049" Key: "0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110"
Address: "0xa61464658AfeAf65CccaaFD3a512b69A83B77618" Key: "0xac1e735be8536c6534bb4f17f06f6afc73b2b5ba84ac2cfb12f7461b20c0bbe3"
Address: "0x0D43eB5B8a47bA8900d84AA36656c92024e9772e" Key: "0xd293c684d884d56f8d6abd64fc76757d3664904e309a0645baf8522ab6366d9e"
Address: "0xA13c10C0D5bd6f79041B9835c63f91de35A15883" Key: "0x850683b40d4a740aa6e745f889a6fdc8327be76e122f5aba645a5b02d0248db8"
========================================
  Node is ready at 127.0.0.1:8011
========================================
```

:::warning

> When utilizing `era-test-node` with MetaMask, it's essential to note that any redeployment of the in-memory node will necessitate a reset of MetaMask's cached account data. To do this, navigate to 'Settings', then 'Advanced', and finally, select 'Clear activity tab data'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When utilizing `era-test-node` with MetaMask, it's essential to note that any restart of the in-memory node will necessitate a reset of MetaMask's cached account data (nonce, etc). To do this, navigate to 'Settings', then 'Advanced', and finally, select 'Clear activity tab data'.
```

:::

### Network details

The `era_test_node` has the following default network configurations: 

**L2 RPC:** `http://localhost:8011`
**Network Id:** 260

These can be configured to your preference. 

::: warning
Please note that the existing implementation does not facilitate communication with Layer 1. As a result, an L1 RPC is not available. 
:::

## Forking networks 

To fork the mainnet, use the following command:

```bash
era_test_node fork mainnet
```

:::tip
You can also fork testnet with `era_test_node fork testnet`
:::

The expected output will be as follows:

```
Creating fork from "https://mainnet.era.zksync.io:443" L1 block: L1BatchNumber(97665) L2 block: 7989849 with timestamp 1688738510 and L1 gas price 25717302286
Starting network with chain id: L2ChainId(270)
Setting Rich accounts:

> Address: "0x36615Cf349d7F6344891B1e7CA7C72883F5dc049" Key: "0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110"

Reviewer 2: nit: This console output is slightly out of date, but don't think it really matters

```
Creating fork from "https://testnet.era.zksync.dev:443" L1 block: L1BatchNumber(119993) L2 block: 9602073 with timestamp 1689261421 and L1 gas price 89159417930
Starting network with chain id: L2ChainId(260)

Rich Accounts
=============
Account #0: 0x36615Cf349d7F6344891B1e7CA7C72883F5dc049 (10000 ETH)
Private Key: 0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110

Account #1: 0xa61464658AfeAf65CccaaFD3a512b69A83B77618 (10000 ETH)
Private Key: 0xac1e735be8536c6534bb4f17f06f6afc73b2b5ba84ac2cfb12f7461b20c0bbe3

Account #2: 0x0D43eB5B8a47bA8900d84AA36656c92024e9772e (10000 ETH)
Private Key: 0xd293c684d884d56f8d6abd64fc76757d3664904e309a0645baf8522ab6366d9e

Account #3: 0xA13c10C0D5bd6f79041B9835c63f91de35A15883 (10000 ETH)
Private Key: 0x850683b40d4a740aa6e745f889a6fdc8327be76e122f5aba645a5b02d0248db8

========================================
  Node is ready at 127.0.0.1:8011
========================================
```

```

Here's an example of what you should expect to see:

```bash
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":"0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000200000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000018436861696e4c696e6b20546f6b656e2028676f65726c69290000000000000000","id":1}
```

Or, if you prefer, use [`foundry-zksync`](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync). Make sure to install and configure `foundry-zksync` before proceeding (for installation instructions, please see this [link](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync/tree/main#foundry-with-zksync-era-v01)):

```bash
zkcast call 0x40609141Db628BeEE3BfAB8034Fc2D8278D0Cc78 "name()(string)" --rpc-url http://localhost:8011
```

Here's an example of what you should expect to see:

```bash
ChainLink Token (goerli)
```

Retrieve the balance of a particular contract:

```bash
zkcast call 0x40609141Db628BeEE3BfAB8034Fc2D8278D0Cc78 "balanceOf(address)(uint256)"  0x40609141Db628BeEE3BfAB8034Fc2D8278D0Cc78  --rpc-url http://localhost:8011
```

Here's an example of what you should expect to see: 

```bash
28762283719941475444443116625665
```

### Deploying contracts

> Before proceeding, ensure that you've compiled your contracts using `zkforge zk-build`. For instructions on how to do this, please refer to this [link](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync#compile-with-zkforge-zk-build).

Reviewer: Is it possible to deploy via Hardhat? If so, let's mention it first

Author: You can deploy via Hardhat but the example makes use of zkforge. I will add Hardhat example as well for parity.
